inst/paper/paper.md, before:

---
title: 'hydroscoper: R interface to the Greek National Data Bank for 
Hydrological and Meteorological Information'
authors:
- affiliation: 1
  name: Konstantinos Vantas
  orcid: 0000-0001-6387-8791
date: "22 Dec 2017"
output:
  html_document: default
  pdf_document: default
bibliography: paper.bib
tags:
- R
- tidy data
- hydrology
- Meteorology
- Greece
affiliations:
- index: 1
  name: Aristotle University of Thessaloniki
---

# Summary

The  Greek National Databank for Hydrological and Meteorological Information, Hydroscope, provides several national data sources in HTML and plain text files, via a web interface to multiple data bases [@hydroscope, @enidrys].
The data are structured as tables and space separated text files, but are in Greek, thus limiting their usefulness. Also, the ability to run querries in Hydroscope is problematic.
_hydroscoper_ in an R package [@R] that provides  functionality for automatic retrieval and parsing of data and translation and transliteration of Greek terms and names from Hydroscope. 
The available functions that can be utilized from _hydroscoper_ are `get_stations`, `get_coords`, `get_timeseries` and `get_data` to easily
download data from Hydroscope and create a tidy dataframe [@tidy]. The internal databases of the package can be used to run querries on the stations and timeseries values, reducing the time needed to gather information, as these data are rarely modificated.

These data support a) enigneers, manufacturers and consultants, for the 
development of water resources and environmental studies and the implementation 
of related projects, b)researchers and other scientists to promote their studies
and c) Greek organisations to submit data, reports  and other deliverables to  the European Union and other domestic and international organizations.


# References

Commit message:

update with use of enhydris

inst/paper/paper.md, after:

---
title: 'hydroscoper: R interface to the Greek National Data Bank for 
Hydrological and Meteorological Information'
authors:
- affiliation: 1
  name: Konstantinos Vantas
  orcid: 0000-0001-6387-8791
date: "22 Dec 2017"
output:
  html_document: default
  pdf_document: default
bibliography: paper.bib
tags:
- R
- tidy data
- hydrology
- Meteorology
- Greece
affiliations:
- index: 1
  name: Aristotle University of Thessaloniki
---

# Summary

The  Greek National Databank for Hydrological and Meteorological Information, Hydroscope, provides several national data sources in HTML, json and plain text files, via a web interface [@hydroscope], using the Enhydris database system for the storage and management of hydrological and meteorological data [@enhydris] from multiple owners.

The data are well structured but are in Greek, thus limiting their usefulness. Knowledge of how to use R and parse them is required to extract the data into a data frame for use in R [@R-base] or requires external programs and scripting to import the data for use. 

_hydroscoper_ provides  functionality for automatic retrieval and parsing, translation and transliteration of data to English.

The available functions that can be utilized from _hydroscoper_ are `get_stations`, `get_timeseries` and `get_data` to easily
download data from Hydroscope and create tidy dataframes [@tidy]. 

The internal databases of the package can be used to run querries on the stations and timeseries values, reducing the time needed to gather information, as these data are rarely modificated.

These data support a) enigneers, manufacturers and consultants, for the 
development of water resources and environmental studies and the implementation 
of related projects, b)researchers and other scientists to promote their studies
and c) Greek organisations to submit data, reports  and other deliverables to 
the European Union and other domestic and international organizations.


# References
